[Docs] Add Plot Bands documentation (#946)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/chart/plot-bands.md

---
title: Plot Bands

> page_title: Plot Bands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: Chart Plot Bands
```

description: Plot Bands in the Charts for Blazor.
slug: chart-plot-bands
tags: telerik,blazor,chart,plot,bands,plotbands
published: true
position: 45
---

# Plot Bands

> Plot Bands are colored ranges in the Telerik UI for Blazor Chart, the purpose of which is to highlight areas of the chart by changing its background in a predefined axis range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plot Bands are colored ranges in the Telerik UI for Blazor Chart. Their purpose is to highlight areas of the chart by changing the background color in a predefined axis range.
```

> The plot bands appear on the chart as colored areas that fill the entire space between two grid lines on the x-axis or on the y-axis.

Reviewer: Perhaps we can merge this information with the previous paragraph? Currently it sounds a bit like a duplication.

## Creating Plot Bands

> 1. Add instances of the `PlotBand` items to the `PlotBands` collection of the X or Y axes. 

Reviewer: `PlotBand` and `PlotBands` may sound a bit misleading here, as we don't have such tags.

```suggestion
1. Add `PlotBand` instances inside the `PlotBands` collection of the X or Y axes.
```

1. Set a value to the `From` and `To` parameters.
1. Provide a valid CSS color to the `Color` parameter.

> 1. (Optional) Customize the plot band further by providing values to the other exposed parameters.

Reviewer: This step does not provide specific value here, because we don't mention what are these other parameters. We can move the sentence somewhere else and provide more details.

## Supported Chart types

> You can render plot bands for `Categorical` (like column, bar, area, line, candlestick) and `Numerical` (like bubble, scatterline, scatter) charts.

Reviewer: How do we configure plot bands in the categorical X axis? For example, I can seem to configure a plot band from "Q2" to "Q3". What is supported and what is not?

Author: You can, quirky tho, you need to define between which two major grid lines are the Plot bands

    <ChartCategoryAxes>
        <ChartCategoryAxis Categories="@xAxisItems">
            <ChartCategoryAxisPlotBands>
                <ChartCategoryAxisPlotBand From="2" To="3" Color="red" Opacity="0.4">
                </ChartCategoryAxisPlotBand>
            </ChartCategoryAxisPlotBands>
        </ChartCategoryAxis>
    </ChartCategoryAxes>
    
 This will result in a Plot band between the third and fourth (Q3) due to the indexes.

        </ChartSeries>
    </ChartSeriesItems>

    <ChartXAxes>
        <ChartXAxis Max="-30" AxisCrossingValue="@(new object[] { -100 })">
            <ChartXAxisTitle Text="Signal Strength, dBm"></ChartXAxisTitle>
        </ChartXAxis>
    </ChartXAxes>

    <ChartYAxes>
        <ChartYAxis>
            <ChartYAxisTitle Text="Error count"></ChartYAxisTitle>
            <ChartYAxisPlotBands>
                <ChartYAxisPlotBand From="6" To="11" Color="blue" Opacity="0.4"></ChartYAxisPlotBand>
            </ChartYAxisPlotBands>
        </ChartYAxis>
    </ChartYAxes>
</TelerikChart>

@code {
    public class ModelData
    {
        public double Strength { get; set; }
        public double Errors { get; set; }
    }

    public List<ModelData> Series1Data = new List<ModelData>()
{
       new ModelData { Strength = -82, Errors = 15  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -79, Errors = 13  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -77, Errors = 10  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -74, Errors = 7  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -70, Errors = 3  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -65, Errors = 1  }
    };

    public List<ModelData> Series2Data = new List<ModelData>()

> {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
```

    {
       new ModelData { Strength = -80, Errors = 25  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -76, Errors = 22  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -73, Errors = 17  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -70, Errors = 15  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -65, Errors = 12  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -61, Errors = 10  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -55, Errors = 7  },
       new ModelData { Strength = -50, Errors = 3  }
    };
}
````

### Plot bands on the category/X axis

The category and X axes support the usage of plot bands to highlight parts of the Chart. They are defined between two major grid lines, and the `From` and `To` parameters take the indexes of those major grid lines.

````CSHTML
@* Plot bands on the category axis *@ 

<TelerikChart>
    <ChartSeriesItems>
        <ChartSeries Type="ChartSeriesType.Column" Name="Product 1" Data="@series1Data">
        </ChartSeries>
        <ChartSeries Type="ChartSeriesType.Column" Name="Product 2" Data="@series2Data">
        </ChartSeries>
    </ChartSeriesItems>

    <ChartCategoryAxes>
        <ChartCategoryAxis Categories="@xAxisItems">
            <ChartCategoryAxisPlotBands>

>                 <ChartCategoryAxisPlotBand From="2" To="3" Color="red" Opacity="0.4">
> 
>                 </ChartCategoryAxisPlotBand>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                <ChartCategoryAxisPlotBand From="0" To="1" Color="red" Opacity="0.2" />
                <ChartCategoryAxisPlotBand From="2" To="3" Color="red" Opacity="0.2" />
```
